Dear Brothers and Sisters

In the process of nation building, we often arrive at a moment which leads us to a path breaking juncture and opens up a plethora of opportunities imploring us to aspire for new dreams. At the stroke of the midnight hour today, together we shall ensure a pioneering future of the nation.

Within a few moments from now, our nation will embark upon a new economic regime. The entire 1.25 billion citizens of the country are a witness to this historical event. I do not believe that this process of GST is restricted to the scope of economy only. This momentous occasion stands today as a testimony to the concept of Co-operative Federalism in Indian Democracy. This hallmark day was possible due to the relentless efforts put in over decades by several stalwarts under whose guidance various teams developed this GST framework.

It is overwhelming to see you all spare your valuable time to attend this auspicious occasion. I extend my heartfelt welcome and express my sincere gratitude to all of you for your august presence today.

This path that we have tread upon, the direction that we have selected, the system that we have developed has not seen the light of the day because of just one team, or one government. This is a shared heritage. The combined efforts of all led us to this accomplishment. And here we are, unified, heralding the red letter day at 12 AM in this Central Hall.

This is the same place which has been blessed by the footprints of many great national leaders. We are honoured to be sitting in the same sanctum. Let us reminisce the 9th of December, 1946 when this same Central Hall witnessed the first meeting to discuss the country's Constitution. Today we share the same place of pride. The front seats of this hall were ordained by the iconic national heroes like Pandit Jawaharlal Nehru, Maulana Abul Kalam Azad, Sardar Vallabh Bhai Patel, Baba Saheb Bhimrao Ambedkar, Acharya Kripalani, Dr. Rajendra Prasad, Sarojini Naidu.

The same House which once on 14 August, 1947, at the stroke of the midnight hour, witnessed the most pious moment of the nation attaining freedom! On 26th November, 1949, this House stands as a testimony to the historical event when the Constitution was accepted by the nation.

Several years later, this House shall once again go down in the annals of history as there couldn't have been a more anointed venue than this for the launch of one of the biggest strength of Federal structure, the GST Reform.

Between many a great debates, agreements and disagreements, chalking a new path, adopting the middle path when they would go astray, was born the Indian Constitution! It was an outcome of deliberations which lasted two years, eleven months and seventeen days when people from every part of the country participated in the brainstorming. In a similar way, GST has been the result of a long drawn premeditated mentation of several years equally supported by State Governments. There have been continuous discussions with Former Ministers and the best brains of the country have helped realise GST.

When the Constitution was framed, it introduced a framework of equal opportunity and rights for all. Very importantly, GST also intends to bring in economic reforms. It is a great example of Co-operative Federalism which shall facilitate inclusive growth of the nation.

With the launch of GST, Team India has proven its potential and diligence. This GST Council has developed such systems wherein the underprivileged gets all the promised facilities. The people connected with GST have gone beyond politics and unanimously contributed to ensure welfare of the poor class. Arun ji has acknowledged the contribution of all of them who walked the talk along with the government. My hearty congratulations to all who led this movement towards this milestone!

All states are slated to gain immensely as they shall now get equal opportunities of development.

GST is in a way is like our railways with state and Centre playing equal role in its operations. While it receives regional support at the state level, yet it is representative of the "Indian Railways". The Central Service officers are deputed all over the states and they align the state with the vision of the Centre.

GST is the first of its kind system in the country when both Centre and State shall be putting consolidated efforts in the same direction. We shall be proud of this wonderful system for generations to come as GST is a landmark achievement which is bound to take the nation towards exponential growth.

